README.md, before:

# Python Vs Javascript Quiz

![Python Vs JavaScript Quiz game shown in different device sizes.](documentation/gifs/am-responsive-gif.gif)

[Link to Live Website](https://sooryageorge7.github.io/Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz/)

How confident are you in knowing the difference between Python and Javascript ? 

Test your knowledge with this quiz in order to validate your knowledge(Yes, i used the term validate because testing just your website may not be enough!)

The languages Javascript and Python have a lot in common, but also subtle differences.They say that if you know one of them , its easier to learn the other. This statement may be true, but it is also very easy to misplace and confuse code syntax for either of the progamming languages. 

This quiz is aimed to help instill a lot of the differences between the two so that it is easier for user to code when they use either one of the languages in a program. 

The website is especially designed for newbies to coding or the tech world. When learning all the different languages at once, the information may be overwhelming and this quiz is created to help grasp the difference between the two languages in a fun, interactive way.

## CONTENTS

* [User Experience](#User-Experience)
  * [User Stories](#User-Stories)

* [Design](#Design)
  * [Colour Scheme](#Colour-Scheme)
  * [Typography](#Typography)
  * [Imagery](#Imagery)
  * [Wireframes](#Wireframes)
  * [Features](#Features)
    
  * [Future Implementations](#Future-Implementations)
  * [Accessibility](#Accessibility)

* [Technologies Used](#Technologies-Used)
  * [Languages Used](#Languages-Used)
  * [Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used](#Frameworks,-Libraries-&-Programs-Used)

* [Deployment & Local Development](#Deployment-&-Local-Development)
  * [Deployment](#Deployment)
  * [Local Development](#Local-Development)
    * [How to Fork](#How-to-Fork)
    * [How to Clone](#How-to-Clone)

* [Testing](#Testing)
  * [Solved Bugs](#Solved-Bugs)
  * [Known Bugs](#Known-Bugs)
  
* [Credits](#Credits)
  * [Code Used](#Code-Used)
  * [Content](#Content)
  * [Media](#Media)
  * [Acknowledgments](#Acknowledgments)

---

## User Experience (UX)

### User Stories

#### First Time Visitor Goals

* As a user, I want to know about the game from looking at it so that i can play the game being informed about the content.
* As a user, I want to find out how to play game so that i can play the game efficiently.
* As a user, I want see if my answer is correct so that my score increases.
* As a user, I want to see time limit i have left so that i dont run out of time when playing.
* As a user, I want to see my score at the end so that i can evaaluate if i'm weel versed with Javascript or Python syntax.

#### Returning Visitor Goals

* As a user,I want different questions every time i play to test my knowledge even further.
* As a user,I want to be able to play again if i wanted to so i cant improve my prrevious score.

---

## Design

I wanted to keep the colour scheme to match with background video, and chose few colours to not overwhelm users when playing the game. The main colour which is a yellow-orange color was selected because it's a colour that  creates a sense of excitement and enthusiasm. The background video contains floating particles of a similar shade and it gived the illusion of diving deep into an alternate universe(usually how it feels when you code for hours!)

### Colour Scheme

The colours below are used in the following instances:
* #FF9F00 - Used for button colors,background colours, some texts. This is used as the main color..
* #C1C1C1 - Opted out of not using this in final design because there was no need, and inserting the colour made the area dull.
* #2B2B2B - Used as Primary and secondary text colors and as background color to contrast against the main color(#FF0F00).
* #FAF9F6 - Used as background color for answer buttons
* #226F54 - Used to alert user if answer clicked is correct- turns the button to this color and gives the section border the same shadow.
* #E04C4C - Used to alert user if answer clicked is incorrect- turns the button to this color and gives the section border the same shadow.
![Python Vs Javascript Quiz Color Scheme](documentation/color-palette-quiz.png)

### Typography

I used [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) to import the chosen fonts .

* [Noto Serif](https://fonts.google.com/noto/specimen/Noto+Serif?preview.text=JavaScript%20Vs%20Python&preview.text_type=custom&query=noto+serif&sort=popularity&noto.query=novecento) - Used for All headings and Questions.
* [Open Sans](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Open+Sans?preview.text=JavaScript%20Vs%20Python&preview.text_type=custom&query=open+sans&sort=popularity&noto.query=novecento) - Used for all other texts in game.

Noto Serif is a serif typeface created by Google specially for users to consume written digital content. I thought it would be appropriate for a quiz game which is educational.
I first got the heading font i wanted from Google fonts and i used [typ.io](https://typ.io/fonts/noto_serif) to get a font that it pairs well with .

### Imagery

I did not use any images , but my background video was chosen it gives the feeling of delving deep into the world of coding and programing languages. The credits for the background video is in [Credits](#credits) section.

### Wireframes

I created wireframes using [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) for mobile, tablet and desktops screens.

#### Home Page

![Home page](documentation/wireframes/wireframe-first-page.png)

### Game Page 

![Game page](documentation/wireframes/wireframe-game-page.png)

### Features
### Future implimentation

### Accessibility

I ensured to provide sufficient accessibility throughout the making of this game site by the following ways:

* I used semantic HTML.
* Ensures that there is sufficient colour contrast throughout the game site.
* Ensured that user knows when their answer is correct or wrong by using red and green shade to highlight answer.
* Ensure that the user can see the score while playing (this would also help users that maybe color blind).
* Allowed users to see their score in scoreboard to compare.


## Technologies Used
### Languages Used 

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

* [Git](https://git-scm.com/) - For version control
* [Github](https://github.com/) - To save and store files for game site.
* [GitPod](https://gitpod.io/) - Code editor.
* [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/ )- To get free images from open source.
* [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) - To get color palette.
* [sv grepo](https://www.svgrepo.com/) - To find svg icon for favicon and logo.
* [Real Favicon generator](https://coolors.co/) - To generate favicon.
* [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) - Used to create wireframes of game site.
* [Typ.io](https://typ.io/) - Used to find complimentory font for main heading.
* [Google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Used to get import links for the specific fonts chosen.
* [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - Used to get free icons.
* [Tiny PNG](https://tinypng.com/) -  To compress images
* [Birme](https://www.birme.net/) - To change format of image to webp format.
* [Google developer tools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/) - Used to test website throughout the process of developing it.
* [Am i responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/) -  To display the quiz game site on a range of devices.


## Deployment & Local Development

### Deployment
To create a live website of Python Vs Javascript Quiz, deployment was done using github pages. The step by step process is shown below:
1. Log in or Sign up to github.
2. Find the repository for this project,Python-Vs-JavaScript Quiz.(Can be found under top repositories on the left hand side)
3. Click on Settings link that is displayed above and left to the green gitpod button.
4. Click on Pages link under code and automation in the navigation bar on the left hand side.
5. Under Build and Deployment, click on the branch drop down menu and select main and make sure the select folder drop down is selected on root.
6. Now click save and wait a few minutes.
7. Refresh the page, and the url for your live website will be shown under the heading, GitHub Pages.
8. Deployment is now complete.

### Local Development
#### How to Fork
To fork the Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz Repository: 
1. Log in or Sign up to github.
2. Find the repository for this project, SooryaGeorge7/Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz
3. Click the fork button on top right corner. 
#### How to Clone
To clone the Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz Repository: 
1. Log in or Sign up to github.
2. Find the repository for this proect, SooryaGeorge7/Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz.
3. Click on Code button just left to the green gitpod button.
4. Select what you would like to clone with (HTTPS/SSH/GitHub CLI) and copy the link shown below.
5. Open the terminal in your code editor(eg. Gitpod) and change the current working directory to the location you want to use for cloned directory.
6. In the terminal type in "git clone" and paste the link you copied in step 4 above. Press enter.
7. Cloning is now completed.

## Testing
### Solved Bugs
### Known Bugs

## Credits

### Code used 
### Content 
### Media 
* [Background game image- from pexels website](https://www.pexels.com/photo/close-up-photo-of-matrix-background-1089438/)
### Acknowledgements

Commit message:

added common features in README.md

README.md, after:

# Python Vs Javascript Quiz

![Python Vs JavaScript Quiz game shown in different device sizes.](documentation/gifs/am-responsive-gif.gif)

[Link to Live Website](https://sooryageorge7.github.io/Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz/)

How confident are you in knowing the difference between Python and Javascript ? 

Test your knowledge with this quiz in order to validate your knowledge(Yes, i used the term validate because testing just your website may not be enough!)

The languages Javascript and Python have a lot in common, but also subtle differences.They say that if you know one of them , its easier to learn the other. This statement may be true, but it is also very easy to misplace and confuse code syntax for either of the progamming languages. 

This quiz is aimed to help instill a lot of the differences between the two so that it is easier for user to code when they use either one of the languages in a program. 

The website is especially designed for newbies to coding or the tech world. When learning all the different languages at once, the information may be overwhelming and this quiz is created to help grasp the difference between the two languages in a fun, interactive way.

## CONTENTS

* [User Experience](#User-Experience)
  * [User Stories](#User-Stories)

* [Design](#Design)
  * [Colour Scheme](#Colour-Scheme)
  * [Typography](#Typography)
  * [Imagery](#Imagery)
  * [Wireframes](#Wireframes)
  * [Features](#Features)
    
  * [Future Implementations](#Future-Implementations)
  * [Accessibility](#Accessibility)

* [Technologies Used](#Technologies-Used)
  * [Languages Used](#Languages-Used)
  * [Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used](#Frameworks,-Libraries-&-Programs-Used)

* [Deployment & Local Development](#Deployment-&-Local-Development)
  * [Deployment](#Deployment)
  * [Local Development](#Local-Development)
    * [How to Fork](#How-to-Fork)
    * [How to Clone](#How-to-Clone)

* [Testing](#Testing)
  * [Solved Bugs](#Solved-Bugs)
  * [Known Bugs](#Known-Bugs)
  
* [Credits](#Credits)
  * [Code Used](#Code-Used)
  * [Content](#Content)
  * [Media](#Media)
  * [Acknowledgments](#Acknowledgments)

---

## User Experience (UX)

### User Stories

#### First Time Visitor Goals

* As a user, I want to know about the game from looking at it so that i can play the game being informed about the content.
* As a user, I want to find out how to play game so that i can play the game efficiently.
* As a user, I want see if my answer is correct so that my score increases.
* As a user, I want to see time limit i have left so that i dont run out of time when playing.
* As a user, I want to see my score at the end so that i can evaaluate if i'm weel versed with Javascript or Python syntax.

#### Returning Visitor Goals

* As a user,I want different questions every time i play to test my knowledge even further.
* As a user,I want to be able to play again if i wanted to so i cant improve my prrevious score.

---

## Design

I wanted to keep the colour scheme to match with background video, and chose few colours to not overwhelm users when playing the game. The main colour which is a yellow-orange color was selected because it's a colour that  creates a sense of excitement and enthusiasm. The background video contains floating particles of a similar shade and it gived the illusion of diving deep into an alternate universe(usually how it feels when you code for hours!)

### Colour Scheme

The colours below are used in the following instances:
* #FF9F00 - Used for button colors,background colours, some texts. This is used as the main color..
* #C1C1C1 - Opted out of not using this in final design because there was no need, and inserting the colour made the area dull.
* #2B2B2B - Used as Primary and secondary text colors and as background color to contrast against the main color(#FF0F00).
* #FAF9F6 - Used as background color for answer buttons
* #226F54 - Used to alert user if answer clicked is correct- turns the button to this color and gives the section border the same shadow.
* #E04C4C - Used to alert user if answer clicked is incorrect- turns the button to this color and gives the section border the same shadow.
![Python Vs Javascript Quiz Color Scheme](documentation/color-palette-quiz.png)

### Typography

I used [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) to import the chosen fonts .

* [Noto Serif](https://fonts.google.com/noto/specimen/Noto+Serif?preview.text=JavaScript%20Vs%20Python&preview.text_type=custom&query=noto+serif&sort=popularity&noto.query=novecento) - Used for All headings and Questions.
* [Open Sans](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Open+Sans?preview.text=JavaScript%20Vs%20Python&preview.text_type=custom&query=open+sans&sort=popularity&noto.query=novecento) - Used for all other texts in game.

Noto Serif is a serif typeface created by Google specially for users to consume written digital content. I thought it would be appropriate for a quiz game which is educational.
I first got the heading font i wanted from Google fonts and i used [typ.io](https://typ.io/fonts/noto_serif) to get a font that it pairs well with .

### Imagery

I did not use any images , but my background video was chosen it gives the feeling of delving deep into the world of coding and programing languages. The credits for the background video is in [Credits](#credits) section.

### Wireframes

I created wireframes using [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) for mobile, tablet and desktops screens.

#### Home Page

![Home page](documentation/wireframes/wireframe-first-page.png)

### Game Page 

![Game page](documentation/wireframes/wireframe-game-page.png)

### Score Page 

![Score page](documentation/wireframes/wireframe-scoreboard-page.png)

As i developed my game, My design for the game changed because of time constraints and implementations that would be beyond the project 2 scope at this point. 

### Features

The website is comprimised of a home page, game page, score page, how to play page and a 404 error page.

The Home page, Game page, Score page and How to play page are implemented in index.html. Css style display was used to hide and display the certain sections at certain points in the game. 

The 404 error page  is in a seperate html file called 404.html.

All sections in the game have the following in common: 

* The Quiz Heading(Located at top of every section of game.)

![Quiz Heading](documentation/quiz-heading.png)

* A Copyright statement(Located at the bottom of the page.)

![Copyright Statement](documentation/copyright-statement.png)

* The favicon (Located on browser tab.)

![Favicon](documentation/favicon-feature.png)
### Future implimentation

### Accessibility

I ensured to provide sufficient accessibility throughout the making of this game site by the following ways:

* I used semantic HTML.
* Ensures that there is sufficient colour contrast throughout the game site.
* Ensured that user knows when their answer is correct or wrong by using red and green shade to highlight answer.
* Ensure that the user can see the score while playing (this would also help users that maybe color blind).
* Allowed users to see their score in scoreboard to compare.


## Technologies Used
### Languages Used 

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

* [Git](https://git-scm.com/) - For version control
* [Github](https://github.com/) - To save and store files for game site.
* [GitPod](https://gitpod.io/) - Code editor.
* [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/ )- To get free images from open source.
* [Coolors](https://coolors.co/) - To get color palette.
* [sv grepo](https://www.svgrepo.com/) - To find svg icon for favicon and logo.
* [Real Favicon generator](https://coolors.co/) - To generate favicon.
* [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) - Used to create wireframes of game site.
* [Typ.io](https://typ.io/) - Used to find complimentory font for main heading.
* [Google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Used to get import links for the specific fonts chosen.
* [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - Used to get free icons.
* [Tiny PNG](https://tinypng.com/) -  To compress images
* [Birme](https://www.birme.net/) - To change format of image to webp format.
* [Google developer tools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/) - Used to test website throughout the process of developing it.
* [Am i responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/) -  To display the quiz game site on a range of devices.


## Deployment & Local Development

### Deployment
To create a live website of Python Vs Javascript Quiz, deployment was done using github pages. The step by step process is shown below:
1. Log in or Sign up to github.
2. Find the repository for this project,Python-Vs-JavaScript Quiz.(Can be found under top repositories on the left hand side)
3. Click on Settings link that is displayed above and left to the green gitpod button.
4. Click on Pages link under code and automation in the navigation bar on the left hand side.
5. Under Build and Deployment, click on the branch drop down menu and select main and make sure the select folder drop down is selected on root.
6. Now click save and wait a few minutes.
7. Refresh the page, and the url for your live website will be shown under the heading, GitHub Pages.
8. Deployment is now complete.

### Local Development
#### How to Fork
To fork the Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz Repository: 
1. Log in or Sign up to github.
2. Find the repository for this project, SooryaGeorge7/Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz
3. Click the fork button on top right corner. 
#### How to Clone
To clone the Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz Repository: 
1. Log in or Sign up to github.
2. Find the repository for this proect, SooryaGeorge7/Python-Vs-Javascript-Quiz.
3. Click on Code button just left to the green gitpod button.
4. Select what you would like to clone with (HTTPS/SSH/GitHub CLI) and copy the link shown below.
5. Open the terminal in your code editor(eg. Gitpod) and change the current working directory to the location you want to use for cloned directory.
6. In the terminal type in "git clone" and paste the link you copied in step 4 above. Press enter.
7. Cloning is now completed.

## Testing
### Solved Bugs
### Known Bugs

## Credits

### Code used 
### Content 
### Media 
* [Background game image- from pexels website](https://www.pexels.com/photo/close-up-photo-of-matrix-background-1089438/)
### Acknowledgements
